New article on building Copilot Connectors for people data (preview) (#49)
MicrosoftDocs/m365copilot-docs: docs/build-your-first-people-connector.md

- [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- The ability to admin consent in Microsoft Entra admin center. You must be or complete this step as a Global administrator. See [Grant tenant-wide admin consent to an application](/entra/identity/enterprise-apps/grant-admin-consent#prerequisites) for the required roles.
- Your user must have the role Search Administrator, Cloud Application Developer to see the connector in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

## Overview of Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data

You build Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data in the same way as other Copilot connectors using the Microsoft Graph external connections APIs. To ensure Microsoft 365 recognizes your connection as containing people data, you must follow certain schema requirements and register the connection as a source of profile data.

### Connection schema requirements

To ensure Microsoft 365 recognizes your connection as containing people data, your schema must at least have the following property:

> - `accounts` of type `string` representing the account of the user being enriched. The value of this must be a string encoded JSON object of the profile [userAccountInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/api/resources/useraccountinformation?view=graph-rest-beta) entity with the `userPrincipalName` and `externalDirectoryObjectId` properties set to values representing the person to be enriched.

Author: You are correct, it does not exist there - but is a specific preview thing we had to do. So it's a temporary thing

    {
        throw new ServiceException("Registering schema failed",
            responseMessage.Headers, (int)responseMessage.StatusCode);
    }
});
```

You can now run the console application in your terminal window with the following: `dotnet run setup`. After the app completes, you have correctly created your connection and schema in your tenant.

### Adding the profile source and prioritize the connection

To ensure Microsoft 365 correctly propagates the people data in the connection into each user's profile, you must register the connection as a profile source and add it to the profile source prioritization list. You do this via two operations in Microsoft Graph.

Replace the code in the `registerCommand.SetHandler` method with the code below to implement this in the console app.

The first operation adds the connection using the connection id, a display name, and a web url.

The second operation reads the current list of prioritized profile sources and adds this new one on the top of the list, making it the most prioritized source of profile data.

``` csharp
registerCommand.SetHandler(async () =>
{
    Console.WriteLine("Registering the Contoso HR Connector...");

>     _ = await graphClient.Admin.People.ProfileSources

Author: Are you sure you have the latest Graph beta SDK?

[Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/peopleconnectors) enable you to ingest people data and knowledge from your source systems (for example HR, talent management or other people systems) into Microsoft Graph to make it available to Microsoft 365 Copilot and people experiences such as the profile card and people search. When you ingest your data, Copilot can reason over the data and use it to respond to user prompts.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data built using the Microsoft Graph API are currently in public preview with limited functionality. See additional notes and limitations.

This article walks you through the steps to build your first Copilot connector by using the Microsoft Graph SDK in Visual Studio Code.

## Prerequisites

You need the following prerequisites to complete the steps in this article:

- A Microsoft 365 developer tenant (If you don't have a developer tenant, you might qualify for one through the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program))

> - [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download)

Reviewer: Remove region locales (ex. "en-us/" from URLs)

Author: Fixed

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- The ability to admin consent in Microsoft Entra admin center. You must be or complete this step as a Global administrator. See [Grant tenant-wide admin consent to an application](/entra/identity/enterprise-apps/grant-admin-consent#prerequisites) for the required roles.
- Your user must have the role Search Administrator, Cloud Application Developer to see the connector in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

> ## Overview of Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data

Reviewer: Check with marketing for naming guidance.  I believe is "Copilot connectors" without "Microsoft 365".

Author: This is what we've been told to use.

## Build your first custom connector

The following walkthrough guides you through the minimal steps to create a custom Microsoft 365 Copilot connector for people data. You can find a more elaborate example here: [Github: ContosoHrConnector](TODO)

### Entra ID app registration

Follow these steps to create a new Entra ID app registration for your people connector.

1. Log in to the [Azure Entra ID portal](https://aad.portal.azure.com) using a global administrator role.
1. Select **Applications > App registrations** and click on **+ New registration**.
1. Type the name of your application in the **Name** text box. Ex *ContosoHrConnector*.
1. Click **Register** to complete the registration.
1. Select **API Permissions** and choose **+ Add a permission** to add permissions to the app.
1. Choose **Microsoft Graph** and then **Application permissions** and select the following permission scopes:

>     1. **ExternalConnection.ReadWrite.All** (required to create the connection and schema)

Author: Fixed

    1. **ExternalItem.ReadWrite.All** (required to ingest people data)
    1. **PeopleSettings.ReadWrite.All** (required to add the connection as a profile source)
    1. **Users.Read.All** (preview requirement for this walkthrough)
1. Click **Add Permissions** and then click **Grant admin consent for Contoso** (replace Contoso with your organization’s name) to grant these permissions to the application. Select **Yes** to complete the grant.
1. Select **Certificates & secrets** and create a new secret with **+ New client secret**. Give it an appropriate description and expiry length and click **Add**.
1. Note the **Secret** value and store it in a safe location.
1. Click **Overview** and record the *Application (client) ID* and *Directory (tenant) ID*.

> [!TIP]

> > For production scenarios, create two different applications—one to create the connection, schema, and perform the profile source registration, and another for the actual ingestion. Use Managed Identities for credentials instead of storing client secrets.

Author: Having the ability to create a connection and a schema is quite powerful and something you likely want to control - ie an admin wants to ensure that only allowed properties are available in the schema. As an example, if you're building a skills connector you as an admin wants to be in control of that the schema only contains skills and not work position. Then the second app, for the actual connector, can be shared with a developer and now they are only able to ingest skills (based on the schema), and not allowed to create a new connection. The first app also contains the ability to register the source+priority, as that is considered a high privileged operation

  - [`webSites`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/personwebsite?view=graph-rest-beta). Max 1 web site.
  - [`skills`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/skillproficiency?view=graph-rest-beta)
  - [`projects`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/projectparticipation?view=graph-rest-beta)
  - [`awards`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/personaward?view=graph-rest-beta)
  - [`certifications`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/personcertification?view=graph-rest-beta)
- You must provide valid string encoded JSON objects for profile entities. Microsoft Graph ignores invalid values.
- You must always provide profile entities as an array of entities.
- Microsoft Graph treats any other properties, besides the reserved profile entities above in the connection schema, as a custom property.
- Custom properties show up in profile cards as notes during the preview, but Microsoft will remove them before or at general availability.
- Microsoft 365 might take up to 48 hours after you ingest data about a person before it becomes available in people experiences or Copilot.

> - Connections with people data do not support staged connections.

Reviewer 2: What is a staged connection?

Author: Added link

> ---

Reviewer 3: General observation: avoid passive voice and use active voice instead. Active voice reads easier, especially for non-fluent speakers/readers

## Overview of Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data

Microsoft 365 Copilot connectors for people data uses are built in the same way as other Copilot connectors using the Microsoft Graph external connections APIs. In order to be recognized as a connection with people there are certain requirements on the schema and an additional step in registering the connection as a source of profile data.

### Connection schema requirements

In order to be recognized as a connection with people data the schema must have the following properties:

- `connectionId` of type `string` representing the Id of the connection (this requirement is expected to be removed before GA).
- `accounts` of type `string` representing the account of the user being enriched. The value of this must be a string encoded JSON object of the profile [userAccountInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/useraccountinformation?view=graph-rest-beta) entity with the `userPrincipalName` and `externalDirectoryObjectId` properties set to values representing the person to be enriched.

> > [!NOTE]

Author: Fixed

1. Click **Register** to complete the registration.
1. Select **API Permissions** and choose **+ Add a permission** to add permissions to the app.
1. Choose **Microsoft Graph** and then **Application permissions** and select the following permission scopes:
    1. **ExternalConnection.ReadWrite.All** (required to create the connection and schema)
    1. **ExternalItem.ReadWrite.All** (required to ingest people data)
    1. **PeopleSettings.ReadWrite.All** (required to add the connection as a profile source)
    1. **Users.Read.All** (preview requirement for this walkthrough)
1. Click **Add Permissions** and then grant the application these permissions by clicking **Grant admin consent for Contoso** (where Contoso is replaced with the name of your organization). Select **Yes** to complete the grant.
1. Select **Certificats & secrets** and choose to create a new secret with **+ New client secret**. Give it an appropriate description and expiry length and click **Add**.
1. Take a note of the **Secret** value and store it in a safe location.
1. Click on **Overview** and note down the *Application (client) ID* and *Directory (tenant) ID*.

> [!TIP]

> > For production scenarios it is highly recommended to create two different applications - one to create the connection, schema and do the profile source registration, and one second for the actual ingestion.

Reviewer 3: I suggest we also call out that in prod we recommend using Managed Identity to avoid storing credentials.

### Connection application

To create the console application for the people connector follow these instructions:

> 1. On a machine where you have installed the .NET SDK open up a terminal window and type the following to create a new console application: `dotnet new console --name ContosoHrConnector`.

Reviewer 3: Let's clarify here which .NET SDK we're referring to: Graph, base .NET, something else?

1. Navigate to the newly created folder with `cd ContosoHrConnector`.
1. In the console type the following to add the required packages: `dotnet add package Azure.Identity`, `dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Binder`, `dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.UserSecrets`, `dotnet add package Microsoft.Graph.Beta --prerelease` and `System.CommandLine --prerelease`.

> 1. Open Visual Studio Code with `vscode .`.

Reviewer 3: Isn't it `code .`?

});

syncCommand.SetHandler(() =>
{
    Console.WriteLine("Syncing the Contoso HR Connector...");
    // Add sync logic here
});

// Start the command line
await rootCommand.InvokeAsync(args);
```

### Set up authorization to Microsoft Graph

To connect the application to Microsoft Graph using the Entra ID app registration run the following commands in the terminal window, in the directory of the console application. Replace the client ID, tenant ID and client secret with the values you stored in a safe location.

``` bash
dotnet user-secrets init
dotnet user-secrets set settings:clientId <client-id>
dotnet user-secrets set settings:tenantId <tenant-id>
dotnet user-secrets set settings:clientSecret <client-secret>
```

Update the imports so it matches the following:

``` csharp
using System.CommandLine;
using System.Text.Json;
using Azure.Identity;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using Microsoft.Graph;
using Microsoft.Graph.Beta;
using Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors;
using Microsoft.Kiota.Authentication.Azure;
```

Then update *Program.cs*  by adding the following code just before the `setupCommand.SetHandler` row:

``` csharp

> GraphServiceClient? graphClient;

Reviewer 3: Let's remove this and add `var` where we're instantiating the client a few lines further to simplify the code

var credential = new ClientSecretCredential(
    config["settings:tenantId"], config["settings:clientId"], config["settings:clientSecret"]);
var handlers = GraphClientFactory.CreateDefaultHandlers();
var httpClient = GraphClientFactory.Create(handlers);
var authProvider = new AzureIdentityAuthenticationProvider(
    credential, scopes: ["https://graph.microsoft.com/.default"]);
graphClient = new GraphServiceClient(httpClient, authProvider, "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta");
```

### Creating the connection and schema

To add the connection and schema creation replace the `setupCommand.SetHandler` logic with the following code. This will first register the connection with an Id and a name and then create the schema. The schema contains the required properties as well as the *positions* out of the box entity and a custom property called *favoriteColor*. Since the creation of the schema takes a few minutes the code will poll every five seconds to verify that the operation is complete.

``` csharp
var CONNECTOR_ID = "contosohrconnector1";
setupCommand.SetHandler(async () =>
{
    Console.WriteLine("Setting up the Contoso HR Connector...");

>     var newConnectionParameters = new Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors.ExternalConnection

Reviewer 3: We've got `Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors` in usings already so should be able to shorten this

    {
        Console.WriteLine("Failed to create the Contoso HR Connector.");
        return;
    }

    Console.WriteLine("Configuring the schema, this may take a few minutes...");
    var requestInfo = graphClient.External.Connections[newConnection.Id].Schema.ToPatchRequestInformation(new Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors.Schema
    {
        BaseType = "microsoft.graph.externalItem",
        Properties =
           [
                new() {
                     Name = "connectionId",
                     Type = Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors.PropertyType.String
                },
                new() {
                     Name = "accounts",
                     Type = Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors.PropertyType.String
                },
                new() {
                     Name = "positions",
                     Type = Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors.PropertyType.String
                },
                new() {
                     Name = "favoriteColor",
                     Type = Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ExternalConnectors.PropertyType.String
                }
           ]
    });

>     var requestMessage = await graphClient.RequestAdapter.ConvertToNativeRequestAsync<HttpRequestMessage>(requestInfo);

Reviewer 3: Let's add a comment here explaining why we're doing this

    _ = requestMessage ?? throw new Exception("Could not create native HTTP request");
    requestMessage.Method = HttpMethod.Patch;
    requestMessage.Headers.Add("Prefer", "respond-async");

    var responseMessage = await httpClient.SendAsync(requestMessage) ??
           throw new Exception("No response returned from API");

    // Wait for the operation to complete
    if (responseMessage.IsSuccessStatusCode)
    {
        var operationId = responseMessage.Headers.Location?.Segments.Last() ??
            throw new Exception("Could not get operation ID from Location header");
        do
        {
            var operation = await graphClient.External
                .Connections[newConnection.Id]
                .Operations[operationId]
                .GetAsync() ?? throw new ServiceException("Operation not found");

            if (operation?.Status == ConnectionOperationStatus.Completed)
            {

>                 return;

Reviewer 3: What do you think about replacing this with `break` to step out of the loop? In case we add some more code after the loop in the future, it will run, where now it wouldn't and it might take a moment to figure out why.

            }
            else if (operation?.Status == ConnectionOperationStatus.Failed)
            {
                throw new ServiceException($"Schema operation failed: {operation?.Error?.Code} {operation?.Error?.Message}");
            }
            // Wait 5 seconds and check again

>             await Task.Delay(5000);

Reviewer 3: We recommend polling for status every 60s to avoid unnecessary requests.

        } while (true);
    }
    else
    {
        throw new ServiceException("Registering schema failed",
            responseMessage.Headers, (int)responseMessage.StatusCode);
    }
});
```

You can now run the console application in your terminal window with the following: `dotnet run setup`. Once the app is complete your connection and schema is correctly created in your tenant.

### Registering the connection as a profile source

> For Microsoft 365 to correctly propagate the people data in the connection into each users profile, the connection as to be registered as a profile source and be added to the profile source prioritization list. This is done via two operation in Microsoft Graph.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For Microsoft 365 to correctly propagate the people data in the connection into each user's profile, the connection as to be registered as a profile source and be added to the profile source prioritization list. This is done via two operations in Microsoft Graph.
```

Replace the code in the `registerCommand.SetHandler` method with the code below to implement this in the console app.

The first operation will add the connection using the connection id, a display name and a web url.

The second operation will read the current list of prioritized profile sources and add this new one on the top of the list, making it the most prioritized source of profile data.

``` csharp
registerCommand.SetHandler(async () =>
{
    Console.WriteLine("Registering the Contoso HR Connector...");

>     var addResponse = await graphClient.Admin.People.ProfileSources

Reviewer 3: Since we're not using `addResponse` anywhere, we can assign the value to discard to avoid creating unnecessary variables `_ = await...`

        .PostAsync(new Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ProfileSource
        {
            SourceId = CONNECTOR_ID,
            DisplayName = "Contoso HR Connector",
            WebUrl = "https://hr.contoso.com"
        }) ?? throw new ServiceException("Failed to register the Contoso HR Connector");

     var propertySettings = await graphClient.Admin.People.ProfilePropertySettings.GetAsync() ?? throw new ServiceException("No response returned from API");

>         var globalSettings = (propertySettings.Value != null

Reviewer 3: It seems like this code is misaligned

>         var globalSettings = (propertySettings.Value != null

Reviewer 3: Could this be done with:

```cs
var globalSettings = propertySettings.Value?.SingleOrDefault(x => x.Name is null) ?? throw new ServiceException("No response returned from API");`
```

        var sources = globalSettings.PrioritizedSourceUrls;
        var sourceId = globalSettings.Id;

        if (sources == null || sources.Count == 0)
        {
            sources = new List<string>([$"https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/admin/people/profileSources(sourceId='{CONNECTOR_ID}')"]);
        }
        else
        {
            sources.Insert(0, $"https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/admin/people/profileSources(sourceId='{CONNECTOR_ID}')");
        }

        var newPropertySetting = new Microsoft.Graph.Beta.Models.ProfilePropertySetting
        {
            PrioritizedSourceUrls = sources
        };

        var responseMessage = await graphClient.Admin.People.ProfilePropertySettings[sourceId]
            .PatchAsync(newPropertySetting) ?? throw new ServiceException("No response returned from API");
});
```

Save your file and run the following command in the terminal window to register the connection as a profile source: `dotnet run register`.

> [!NOTE]
> If you are removing the connection you must also remove the connection from the list of prioritized urls as well as from the list of profile sources.

> ### Synchronizing people

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Synchronizing people profiles
```
